docs: adapt configuring-polaris-for-production.md to Quarkus (#841)
apache/polaris: site/content/in-dev/unreleased/configuring-polaris-for-production.md

weight: 600
---

> ## Tuning Polaris for Production

Reviewer: Is this intended to be the top-level header? If so, why `Tuning` instead of `Configuring`?

Reviewer 2: I also think `Configuring` is more suitable here.

Author: Sorry, I don't remember why I changed this.

The default server configuration is intended for development and testing. When deploying Polaris in
production, there are several best practices to keep in mind.

> Notable configuration options used to secure a Polaris deployment are outlined below.

Reviewer: `configuration options` seems redundant

> For more information on how to configure Polaris and what configuration options are available,

Reviewer: ditto

> refer to the [Configuration]({{% ref "configuration.md" %}}) page.

Author: Note: this page doesn't exist yet, I'm working on a PR for it.

Author: The link is finally available, FYI. I changed the PR.

> ### Security

Reviewer: I feel that this change implies other sections are _not_ related to security, which could be misleading. For example, bootstrap credentials are at least tangentially related to security.

For more information on how to configure Polaris and what configuration options are available,
refer to the Configuration Reference page.

#### oauth2
### Security

> [!WARNING]  
> Ensure that the `tokenBroker` setting reflects the token broker specified in `authenticator` below.
Notable configuration options used to secure a Polaris deployment are outlined below.

* Configure [OAuth](https://oauth.net/2/) with this setting. Remove the `TestInlineBearerTokenPolarisAuthenticator` option and uncomment the `DefaultPolarisAuthenticator` authenticator option beneath it.

> * Then, configure the token broker. You can configure the token broker to use either [asymmetric](https://github.com/apache/polaris/blob/b482617bf8cc508b37dbedf3ebc81a9408160a5e/polaris-service/src/main/java/io/polaris/service/auth/JWTRSAKeyPair.java#L24) or [symmetric](https://github.com/apache/polaris/blob/b482617bf8cc508b37dbedf3ebc81a9408160a5e/polaris-service/src/main/java/io/polaris/service/auth/JWTSymmetricKeyBroker.java#L23) keys.

Reviewer: If we want readers to identify an implementation of an interface, linking to it (or its docs) seems prudent.

Author: I will put the links back, although I'm generally not a fan of linking to source code. Users should know everything they need to know by reading the docs only. The latent issue with links to source code is that you either link to a blob, but then the blob will become outdated as time passes; or you link to the tip of a branch like `main`, but you risk having your link return 404 if the class is moved or deleted.

Reviewer: We could link to the javadocs if that feels better?

Author: That would definitely be better imho. But do we publish javadocs somewhere? I don't recall.

Author: True. I guess we'll have to use blob links for now and revisit this later.

> Polaris authentication requires specifying a token broker factory type. Two types are supported:

Reviewer: It's not true that two types are supported; just that two implementations are provided out of the box.

> > The default `rsa-key-pair` configuration is not suitable when deploying many replicas of Polaris,

Reviewer: This is a great callout.

I do fear that the website doesn't render `[!WARNING]` blocks correctly though

Author: Indeed I don't know where I took this from 😅 Let me replace by bold characters.

Author: Hmm actually it seems that `[!IMPORTANT]` is supported, I will use that.

polaris.authentication.token-broker.max-token-generation=PT1H
```

### Realm Id Resolver

By default, Polaris resolves realms based on incoming request headers. You can configure the realm
context resolver by setting the following properties in `application.properties`:

```properties
polaris.realm-context.realms=POLARIS,MY-REALM
polaris.realm-context.header-name=Polaris-Realm
```

Where:

- `realms` is a comma-separated list of allowed realms. This setting _must_ be correctly configured.
  At least one realm must be specified.
- `header-name` is the name of the header used to resolve the realm; by default, it is
  `Polaris-Realm`.

If a request does not contain the specified header, Polaris will use the first realm in the list as
the default realm. In the above example, `POLARIS` is the default realm.

### Metastore Configuration

A Metastore Manager should be configured with an implementation that durably persists Polaris
entities. By default, Polaris uses an in-memory metastore.

> [!WARNING]
> The default in-memory metastore is not suitable for production use, as it will lose all data
> when the server is restarted; it is also unusable when multiple Polaris replicas are used.

> To use a durable Metastore Manager, you need to switch to the EclipseLink metastore, and provide

Reviewer: nit: style

your own `persistence.xml` file. This file contains details of the database used for metastore
management and the connection settings. For more information, refer to the [metastore
documentation]({{% ref "metastores" %}}).

> Then, configure Polaris to use your metastore by setting the following properties:

Reviewer: nit: Are we using `metastore` or `Metastore Manager`? Let's pick one.

Author: I went for "metastore", hope that's OK.

```properties
polaris.persistence.type=eclipse-link
polaris.persistence.eclipselink.configuration-file=/path/to/persistence.xml
polaris.persistence.eclipselink.persistence-unit=polaris
```

Where:

- `polaris.persistence.type` indicates that we are using the EclipseLink metastore.
- `polaris.persistence.eclipselink.configuration-file` is the path to the `persistence.xml` file.
- `polaris.persistence.eclipselink.persistence-unit` is the name of the persistence unit to use (in 

>   case the configuration file has many persistence units).

Reviewer: This section is a great idea

>   case the configuration file has many persistence units).

Reviewer 3: Given we've already link to the doc `metastores.md`, I'd recommend to provide an example like the following, instead of descriptions here. But it isn't blocker for me. Let's update the doc ASAP. We can fix it in another PR.
```
./gradlew clean :polaris-quarkus-server:assemble -PeclipseLinkDeps=org.postgresql:postgresql:42.7.4
java -Dpolaris.persistence.type=eclipse-link \
     -Dpolaris.persistence.eclipselink.configuration-file=/path/to/persistence.xml \
     -Dpolaris.persistence.eclipselink.persistence-unit=polaris \
     -jar quarkus/server/build/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
```

Typically, in Kubernetes, you would define the `persistence.xml` file as a `ConfigMap` and set the
`polaris.persistence.eclipselink.configuration-file` property to the path of the mounted file in
the container.

> Be sure to secure your metastore backend since it will be storing credentials and catalog metadata.

Reviewer: One one hand, this is not strictly true as it won't store credentials (currently).

On the other hand, this is a very important callout and I worry we are burying the lede by sticking it at the end here. Maybe `[!IMPORTANT]` it or something like that?

Author: It still store the hashes, right? How about "it will be storing sensitive data and catalog metadata"?

Reviewer 4: Yeah absolutely. Something like `Sensitive catalog metadata and user information` maybe.

Reviewer: Yeah absolutely. Something like `...storing catalog metadata and user information` maybe. "Sensitive" is a good idea

### Bootstrapping

Before using Polaris, you must **bootstrap** the metastore manager. This is a manual operation that

> must be performed **only once** in order to prepare the metastore manager to integrate with Polaris.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
must be performed **only once** for each realm in order to prepare the metastore manager to integrate with Polaris.
```

By default, when bootstrapping a new realm, Polaris will create randomised `CLIENT_ID` and

> `CLIENT_SECRET` for the `root` principal and store their hashes in the metastore backend.

Reviewer 3: Does it make sense to ask production users to always provide the credentials instead of providing two options(auto generated or provided)?  This isn't a blocker though.

Author: Yes I think it is probably safer.

Reviewer 3: Let's circulate this idea and make the change later.

Depending on your database, this may not be convenient as the generated credentials are not stored
in clear text in the database.

In order to provide your own credentials for `root` principal (so you can request tokens via
`api/catalog/v1/oauth/tokens`), there are two approaches:

> 1. Use the Polaris Admin Tool to bootstrap the realm and set its `root`

Author: Page doesn't exist yet , so I cannot include a link for now.

Author: Page now exists, I will update this PR.

   principal credentials.

> 2. Set the `root` principal credentials when deploying Polaris for the first time.

Reviewer 3: Does it make sense to always ask users to use option 1? We don't have to mention option 2 in that case. I think this will simplify usage, esp. for the first time users.

Author: I tend to agree, although I remember that the Helm chart currently has a heavy machinery that allows users to go with option 2. But let's remove option 1 from docs and figure out the Helm chart later (big PR coming...).

The first approach is recommended as it is more flexible (you can bootstrap new realms at any time

> without incurring in a Polaris downtime). The second approach is useful for testing and development,

Reviewer: nit: style

but can be used in production as well.

In order to bootstrap root credentials for a realm named `my-realm` when deploying Polaris, set the
following environment variables:

```
export POLARIS_BOOTSTRAP_CREDENTIALS=my-realm,my-client-id,my-client-secret
```

If the realm hasn't been bootstrapped yet, Polaris will create the realm and the `root` principal
with the provided credentials upon first usage of that realm. If the realm already exists, Polaris

> will not attempt to update the `root` principal credentials.

Reviewer 3: Does it mean the bootstrap will fail if the realm exists already? If that's so, we may not mention it or just say you cannot bootstrap an existing realm.

Author: I just checked and indeed it currently fails, and quite inelegantly. I will raise a PR shortly to improve the user experience.

In any case, this paragraph will disappear from this file since we agreed above to only mention option 1.

You can verify the setup by attempting a token issue for the `root` principal:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8181/api/catalog/v1/oauth/tokens \
  -d "grant_type=client_credentials" \
  -d "client_id=my-client-id" \
  -d "client_secret=my-client-secret" \
  -d "scope=PRINCIPAL_ROLE:ALL"
```

Which should return an access token:

```json
{
  "access_token": "...",
  "token_type": "bearer",
  "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token",
  "expires_in": 3600
}
```

> Note that if you used a realm name that is not the default realm name, then you should add an

Reviewer: nit: style

Author: Could you please be more specific about what's wrong with the style? Not being a native English speaker, I'm struggling to figure out the issue here. I asked ChatGPT to improve it, I hope the result sounds better.

Reviewer: Of course, sorry for being unclear! Sometimes it's hard to articulate exactly what comes across as unnatural. I am a native speaker but not a trained copywriter or editor :)

In this specific case I think the comma after `name` was unnecessary, and also the clause `a realm name that is not the default realm name` struck me as unwieldy.

The new version looks good -- and in either case the important thing is that all the information is there.

> appropriate request header to the `curl` command, for example:

Reviewer 3: Missing of realm header will be resolved to the first realm in the configuration `polaris.realm-context.realms`, right?
```suggestion
appropriate request header to the `curl` command, otherwise the Polaris will resolve the first realm in the configuration `polaris.realm-context.realms`, here is an example to set realm header:
```

supported out of the box:

- [rsa-key-pair] uses a pair of public and private keys;
- [symmetric-key] uses a shared secret.

[rsa-key-pair]: https://github.com/apache/polaris/blob/390f1fa57bb1af24a21aa95fdbff49a46e31add7/service/common/src/main/java/org/apache/polaris/service/auth/JWTRSAKeyPairFactory.java
[symmetric-key]: https://github.com/apache/polaris/blob/390f1fa57bb1af24a21aa95fdbff49a46e31add7/service/common/src/main/java/org/apache/polaris/service/auth/JWTSymmetricKeyFactory.java

By default, Polaris uses `rsa-key-pair`, with randomly generated keys. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The default `rsa-key-pair` configuration is not suitable when deploying many replicas of Polaris,
> as each replica will have its own set of keys. This will cause token validation to fail when a
> request is routed to a different replica than the one that issued the token.

It is highly recommended to configure Polaris with previously-generated RSA keys. This can be done
by setting the following properties:

```properties
polaris.authentication.token-broker.type=rsa-key-pair
polaris.authentication.token-broker.rsa-key-pair.public-key-file=/tmp/public.key

> polaris.authentication.token-broker.rsa-key-pair.private-key-file=/tmp/private.key

Reviewer 3: Can we mention how a user gets these key files?

```

Alternatively, you can use a symmetric key by setting the following properties:

```properties
polaris.authentication.token-broker.type=symmetric-key
polaris.authentication.token-broker.symmetric-key.file=/tmp/symmetric.key
```

Note: it is also possible to set the symmetric key secret directly in the configuration file, but
that is not recommended for production use, as the secret is stored in plain text:

```properties

> polaris.authentication.token-broker.symmetric-key.secret=my-secret

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to get the secrets from env variables?

Author: Yes that's possible.
